h1. Python library for the Pololu Dual MC33926 Motor Driver for Raspberry Pi

Version: 2.0.0
Release Date: 2016-05-04
"www.pololu.com":http://www.pololu.com/

h2. Summary

This library runs on the "Raspberry Pi":http://www.pololu.com/product/2757 (Model B+, A+, Pi 2, or Pi 3) and provides functions for controlling both channels of the "Pololu Dual MC33926 Motor Driver for Raspberry Pi":http://www.pololu.com/product/2755.  This library supports both Python 2 and Python 3.

Programs that use this library will need to be run as the root user so they can access the GPIO pins.

A Java port of this library is available at "~vorburger/dual-mc33926-motor-driver-pi4j":https://github.com/vorburger/dual-mc33926-motor-driver-pi4j/.

h2. Getting Started

h3. Installation

This library depends on "WiringPi":http://wiringpi.com/ and "WiringPi-Python":https://github.com/WiringPi/WiringPi-Python.  The instructions below explain how to install these prerequisites.

These instructions assume you are using Raspbian, Debian, or some other distribution that provides the @apt-get@ command for managing packages.  If you do not have @apt-get@, you will need to use a different method to install the required packages.

These instructions also assume you will use Python 2.  If you want to use Python 3, you will need to replace @python@ with @python3@ in the names of the @apt-get@ packages below, and use the @python3@ command instead of @python@ for running Python scripts, and use the @pip3@ command instead of @pip@ to install pip packages.

First, to download and install WiringPi-Python, run:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install python-dev python-pip
sudo pip install wiringpi</pre>

Finally, to download and install the dual_mc33926_rpi library, run:

<pre>
git clone https://github.com/pololu/dual-mc33926-motor-driver-rpi
cd dual-mc33926-motor-driver-rpi
sudo python setup.py install</pre>

h3. Running the example program

This library comes with an example program that drives each motor in both directions.  To run the example, navigate to the dual-mc33926-motor-driver-rpi directory and run:

<pre>
sudo python example.py</pre>

h2. Library reference

This library uses ultrasonic 20&nbsp;kHz PWM to drive the motors.

Motor speeds in this library are represented as numbers between *-480* and *480* (inclusive).  A speed of 0 corresponds to braking.  Positive speeds correspond to current flowing from M1A/M2A to M1B/M2B, while negative speeds correspond to current flowing in the other direction.

The library can be imported into a Python program with the following line:

<pre>
from dual_mc33926_rpi import motors, MAX_SPEED</pre>

After importing the library, you can use the commands below to enable the motors and set motor speeds:

- @motors.enable()@: Enable both motor 1 and motor 2.
- @motors.motor1.enable()@: Enable motor 1.
- @motors.motor2.enable()@: Enable motor 2.
- @motors.disable()@: Disable both motor 1 and motor 2.
- @motors.motor1.disable()@: Disable motor 1.
- @motors.motor2.disable()@: Disable motor 2.
- @motors.setSpeeds(m1_speed, m2_speed)@: Set speed and direction for both motor 1 and motor 2.
- @motors.motor1.setSpeed(speed)@: Set speed and direction for motor 1.
- @motors.motor2.setSpeed(speed)@: Set speed and direction for motor 2.

For convenience, a constant called @MAX_SPEED@ (which is equal to 480) is available on all the objects provided by this library.  You can access it directly by just writing @MAX_SPEED@ if you imported it as shown above, or it can be accessed in the following ways:

- @motors.MAX_SPEED@
- @motors.motor1.MAX_SPEED@
- @motors.motor2.MAX_SPEED@

If you are controlling multiple motor drivers, you might prefer to import the library using @import dual_mc33926_rpi@, which requires the commands listed above to be prefixed with @dual_mc33926_rpi.@.

h2. Version history

* 2.0.0 (2016-05-04): Updated the library code and instructions to work with "WiringPi-Python":https://github.com/WiringPi/WiringPi-Python instead of the deprecated "WiringPi2-Python":https://github.com/Gadgetoid/WiringPi2-Python.
* 1.0.0 (2015-07-14): Original release.
